# Setting Up a Workspace
The first thing that we want you to do is to set up your computer. You will want a contained space to develop your code, this helps keep your computer organized and clean. This can be difficult without an environment since you will be required to download a lot of 3rd party software, especially for machine learning. Additionally, these environments come with Python and package managers that allow for easy use of libraries, which we will also be using frequently. We are tailoring these guides to those using MacOS or Windows, if you are using Linux, you're on your own for this part.

## Visual Studio Code
VS Code (or sometimes just Code) is a popular integrated development environment (IDE) that allows for easy development in most languages. As an IDE, VS Code combines a code editor, complier/interpreter and a debugger. Essentially, it streamlines the entire development process into one program. If you are familiar with another IDE, you can use that instead, but you will be largely on your own for any IDE related debugging.

## Anaconda
This is the suggested environment, it is a popular (which means lots of answers to problems) Python distribution that is designed specifically for machine learning. It also comes with a Python package manager preinstalled and natively supports the use of multiple development environments with different package versions. This can be useful because some code has dependencies on older versions of libraries.

## Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)
If you are using Windows, you can set up WSL instead of Anaconda. It is essentially a Linux OS that works like a program you can open from the start menu. If you are familiar with virtual machines, it's like that, but is more closely integrated with Windows. If you have used WSL before or are familiar with Linux (or want to learn it!), this might be a good option for you. The main drawback is difficulty with drivers required to train computer vision models on the GPU, so if you don't plan on doing that, this is a good option.

## Dual Boot Linux
If you want to dual boot Linux, that is also an option. A dual boot is where you have two operating systems installed on the same computer and you can choose which one to boot into on startup. This will create a partition of your drive where Linux runs that is separate from your Windows or MacOS install. The major tradeoff for this option is space, you will have to allocate some of your drive space to be just for Linux (you probably want at least 50Gb, but technically 15Gb is the minimum). If you want pure Linux to be your development environment, this is the way to go.